foreign
hello hello hello everyone
my name is tyler van der hoeven and i am
my name is tyler van der hoeven and I am
very excited
to be presenting on another
engineering talk
today we're going to be going through
Stellar quest
this is a new app that I'm very very
excited about before we get started
though
a couple of little housekeeping items as
you all have questions
as we're going through today's talk you
can either scan the qr code here
on the screen to ask questions or just
pop them into
into the youtube chat we'll try and get
to questions so as you have questions
for me
be sure and pop them in there we'll have
a time for a q a
at the end
and then we're just gonna kind of
walk through this this application
Stellar quest
so it's been exactly a month actually so
right on the heels of the big release
of scf 2.0
there's been this long-standing project
that i've wanted to build
kind of filling in the gap between
what i would call
what I would call
normie devs you know just developers
that may not be familiar with
cryptocurrency or have been very wary of
jumping in or
even a lot of friends that i've had from
past jobs
wanting to introduce them to
cryptocurrency but having a bit of a gap
like where where do i get them started
like where where do I get them started
where do i sort of plant them i can't
where do I sort of plant them I can't
just send them documentation i want to
just send them documentation I want to
give them a nice landing pad
for Stellar so there's kind of in this
gap here between the normie devs
developers that
are good and enjoy what they do but are
not familiar with cryptocurrency or
Stellar and have maybe wanted to or
would be interested but need a good
landing place a good onboarding
technical onboarding into
interstellar kind of away from all of
the
you know win moon conversations and
pricing and stuff but just want the
technology like help me understand
from a technical perspective what's
going on with these apps so that is
Stellar quest it's this
this this stepping stone between
things like the scf
and kind of being deeper into the
technology and somebody who really knows
nothing
about cryptocurrency or the
technology that powers it
so this is a very technical focused
challenge it's a gamified
application that i've built so
right after scf i started working on
right after scf I started working on
Stellar quest so this has been a
solo project that i've been working on
over the past month
and since this is an engineering talk i
think it's worth pointing out because
it's interesting and it's super
interesting to me
it's all built on cloudflare worker
technology I'm kind of a
aws lambda i love serverless technology
aws lambda I love serverless technology
but really wanted to try
cloudflare workers so all the back end
is built on top of cloudflare workers
their serverless architecture as well as
their key value pair
storage and then the front end is
stencil js
hosted on versal so for those of you who
are interested
in that sort of thing i think it's
in that sort of thing I think it's
fascinating i really enjoyed working
fascinating I really enjoyed working
with those
tech i love stencil js and cloudflare
tech I love stencil js and cloudflare
workers was a real joy to work with
definitely looking forward to using that
moving forward i don't have a fancy
moving forward I don't have a fancy
slide deck
i will call out this one real fast
I will call out this one real fast
just as you find these things
interesting or want to keep up with
projects that I'm working on be sure and
follow me tyvdh
on twitter and again I'm the ecosystem
evangelist at the
Stellar development foundation i don't
Stellar development foundation I don't
have a big slide deck
we're going to actually be looking at
the application itself I'm going to walk
through
the app that i've built and how to use
it so you'll get a little bit of a sneak
peek this is a
this is a challenge application so for
those of you who are lucky enough to
tune in
you might get a little sneak peek at
what we have coming with the with the
upcoming
first Stellar quest challenge so I'm
gonna go ahead and switch
i am going to unfortunately have to call
I am going to unfortunately have to call
out one of our third-party services run
kit
is within the last 20 minutes actually
is is
experiencing a pretty major outage so
some of our images
as well as challenge checking isn't
working right now so
if you see some broken images or we
encounter some unexpected errors
it's probably related to the run kit
outage but that's unfortunate hopefully
it won't
won't affect us too much unless of
course it's cloudflare that's
having the outage but i think it's just
having the outage but I think it's just
run kit so
Stellar quest this is our landing page
at the moment
calling out a little bit about what it
is some of this is up
for discussion definitely looking
for feedback and you guys are getting a
bit of a
sneak peek a first look at what we have
so far so as you have questions or
comments or
kind of the dedicated Stellar fans be
sure and reach out with any feedback or
ideas for how to improve these
screens or the commentary that we have
but you can see right away that series 1
of Stellar quest will be launching on
monday
so challenge 1 of series 1 is going live
at 9 00 a.m
this coming monday so mark your
calendars
there are xlm prizes as well as
these fantastic fancy badges which
you can't see right now because again
we're using run kit to
render some of those so
until run kits back up those will be
dead images unfortunately
for those of you again who is
engineering talk so these are
badges so we've got excellent prizes
that are kind of a while supplies last
sort of thing is you can you know the
first few people that complete each
challenge
will be eligible for xlm prizes
and then anybody who completes a
challenge will get one of these badges
so there's eight badges there are eight
challenges
whenever you complete a challenge you
unlock one of these badges
so it's kind of like the collectibles
that you you'll have on your Stellar
account as you complete
challenges so these are not kind of
one after the next
the the first one launches on monday and
then we wait
until friday at 9 00 pm we've got a.m
and p.m to make sure we cover everybody
across the globe eight challenges
first one launches on on monday so very
very excited for this to
for this to go live be sure and
mark your calendars and then as you
have people that have been interested in
Stellar maybe you've been wanting to
onboard your developer friends into what
we're doing here
be sure and send them the link which
will be quest.Stellar.org
quest.Stellar.org I'm not sure i include
quest.Stellar.org I'm not sure I include
that in any slides so
i'll make sure and call that out so
let's go ahead and log in so
got some legal stuff we've got my super
secret dev login number
we're using SMS codes
to protect against civil attacks
where one person can pretend to be
many people if we use social or email
it's very easy to duplicate those and
just continuously log yourself
in complete challenges and thereby claim
all of the prizes as a single entity
so by using SMS and only allowing actual
mobile numbers
you know no no voice over ip numbers
or landlines
just mobile numbers connected to a valid
network
we block against a lot of that so that's
why if you're confused why we're using
SMS numbers that's what we're using for
now to protect against
the that's the anti-sybil mechanisms
that we're using
same thing that we're using with the
community fund
verify that code and this will jump us
to challenge number one now I'm going to
give you a sneak peek of challenge one
I'm going to try my best not to click on
any other challenges so that
you don't get too far ahead of us the
challenge number one here is just
creating an account so these challenges
are all very modular and relatively
simple
if you're brand new to seller these
might be like whoa what in the world is
this but
we've got helpful links brief brief
commentary on what you're trying to do
again these are challenges for prizes so
we don't want to give away too much but
the idea here is to give away enough
information that
people know where to go to complete the
challenge as well as not to lose them
along the way so
we'll kind of test and see where we can
make improvements
to kind of have that good balance
between giving away too much and not
giving away enough to keep the incentive
to continue on with the challenges but
so we've logged in
we've got our first challenge all the
challenges will be completed with the
same
testnet account so this right here is
just the the account seed
or the account public key and you need
to fund this account you can't
directly fund it with with
friendbot you're going to have to figure
out a way to do it probably through
friendbot through another account or
something like that hinted
but these these accounts will all be
done
using the testnet this entire series
still requests will be divided into
different series
the first series is the one that we're
launching now it's comprised of
eight different challenges and these
series will launch
who knows you know maybe we'll do
some partnerships with other
dev groups or just continue to launch
these from
the foundation i would love to see
the foundation I would love to see
partnerships happen where there's lots
of different series that are co-branded
with other entities
and for each one of those you'll get
a different public key that kind of
links up to
the different challenges and complete
them all through there when we actually
get to the claiming prize portion
that's when you're going to connect a
public key on the live network
where you can claim prizes and actually
have all your stuff on the live network
but
for the actual challenges everything's
on test net so you're not gonna have to
spend any money or go through coinbase
or somehow figure out how to get lumens
the idea again is is just to understand
the technology behind
behind Stellar i've got a nice discord
channel if you guys want to join that
once it's live we'll have some different
discussion going on there as well as if
anybody has
problems or issues we'll try and build
up a little community to support each
other
there's another thing i think worth
there's another thing I think worth
calling out on the login there's a
couple we're using
the twilio lookup service
and there are some issues with different
countries or regions
around SMS verification so if you're
pretty sure that your number should work
particularly like if you're using a
voiceover ip number but that's your main
number or that's what you're using to
get around issues that you have with
your network
but it's not letting you in you would
jump into the discord channel
there's a there's a channel there for
help login
that we can we can white list your
number to let you in
even if you're using a voice over ip
number or or in a country that
twilio doesn't support but you're
still an individual single human being
so that's worth calling out if
you're having issues
logging in there is some some help
for that in general though it should
work fine
so I'm assuming these these check
buttons
trigger off on run kit they actually
look at run kit to see
if your account has performed the action
that is required
so I'm guessing that these buttons will
yes throw some errors because run kit is
done right now
if you just can't figure it out and you
want to just move on and kind of forfeit
the the cash prize but are still wanting
to get the the token
you can click the the shrug button here
i don't know
I don't know
and it'll actually pop up a block of
code straight from run kit
which you can run it'll have
pre-populated in there your public and
private keys
so that when you when you actually go to
run that code it will
perform all the actions necessary to get
your account to a passing state
to where you could then check it and
pass the pass the challenge again you
wouldn't get the xlm you wouldn't be
eligible for the xlm prizes
but you could still be eligible for
the for the badge for completing the
challenge and i'll let you move on
to the next challenge so if you ever get
stuck and you
really just can't figure it out and you
don't feel like jumping into discord or
asking for help which i really strongly
asking for help which I really strongly
suggest that you do you know try and get
through it it's the whole point but for
some reason it's really stuck
you can always just shrug out of it and
and then run the code that that will
spit out
and then check it again and it should
let you pass
once you've completed challenges
however and you're moving right along
every so often we run a
check on the back end which compiles all
of the
people who have completed the challenge
and it runs them against
it kind of compiles all those
together runs them against our prize
array
to see who gets what based on when you
completed the challenge and then it
generates
basically an id which serves as a
claimable
prize so in this case
i've got one waiting here for challenge
one
and it looks like i got first place in
and it looks like I got first place in
this lucky me
local hosts you know not the most
popular domain name at the moment for
everybody else to join so
i won first place got 500 lumens for
I won first place got 500 lumens for
challenge one
see again this beautiful badge here
and now i have the ability to claim this
and now I have the ability to claim this
and so this is going to trigger
the the functionality to allow me to
actually connect to
or create or connect to a public account
public key
where a public network key rather and
actually put this this badge and
500 lumens into my account we do put
a nice little call out here that's
notifying that we're using albedo
orbital lenses
he's the guy who built Stellar
expert developer
good team they built albedo which is
kind of
it's a it's a plug-in but it's also just
a pop-up service that's a
very low friction relatively low
friction
crypto wallet account that you can use
straight from
a browser both on mobile desktop safari
any browser will do and that's what
we're using to
communicate between this website and the
wallet so our non-custodial
application that we'll be calling
this account kind of building that
relationship between making sure
individuals are owning their own
accounts and understanding what they're
doing but also
having the ease of access of
communication between the browser and
the actual wallet so
i've got an account here that's been
connected it's right now it's on the
test net but
recently merged away so we can we got
a little bit of activity on here but it
actually doesn't exist right now
so the first thing it will do will be to
create this account and then
claim those those balances and albedo
I'm using implicit very similar to oauth
where you don't have to continuously
enter your password every single time
you want to claim a prize so it's
possible that i've actually got
a session variable looks like it i don't
a session variable looks like it I don't
right now so it'll pop a session
variable in there
when i run the implicit mode so when i
when I run the implicit mode so when i
first click claim it should pop up that
window
to allow me to actually connect
to that into the password and then that
will go and claim that
balance looks like again we have a run
kit issue so it won't actually let me
claim
this balance but the nice thing here is
it should have
assuming that that error happened after
yep we have that session
so if i go and claim this again it
so if I go and claim this again it
shouldn't do the pop-up it should just
try
and claim that prize again because we
have the run kit issue won't actually
let us claim it but once that run kit
issue is cleared
it'll it'll take this balance it'll
go
and or i'll take this id go and see that
the public key that i've just sent
along with
the amount and the badge it'll create a
transaction for me then it'll send it
back for me to sign
the implicit albedo session will
sign that transaction and then actually
send it back to
Stellar quest backend and then the
stutter quest backend is actually going
to wrap that whole signed
transaction in a fee bump transaction
so that your users or i guess sell
so that your users or I guess sell
request users never have to pay
fees themselves i'll be consuming all of
the fees
but i still get the really high
but I still get the really high
throughput so if a lot of people are
claiming
prizes at the same time i don't have to
prizes at the same time I don't have to
worry about the sequence number because
user accounts are consuming sequence
numbers but
my fee account is consuming all of the
the fees
so a nice use case there of the fee bump
that recently came out in protocol 13
allows for a little bit higher
throughput
for claiming these prizes without having
to have users
actually pay the fees to to collect
their prizes
so really honestly that's that's kind of
it
these these challenges will come out
every monday and friday
again if we look back at our schedule
you can see
mondays and fridays 9 a.m and 9 p.m
going from
challenges one and two for four weeks
all the way through to november six
we'll be calling out things like
meridian hackathon which is open and
ready for registration as well as
things like the Stellar community fund
particularly the lab fund so if folks
are
enjoying Stellar quests and really
getting into the challenges there's
places for them to go
once we again i'd really like to have
partnerships with other developer groups
there might be opportunities for
co-branded links and
really starting to open up the
Stellar sphere
to people that are not inside crypto
that's kind of the whole point of
Stellar quest is to really aim at
normie dead steps that have not been
involved
in crypto before but are interested or
at least willing to take a try so long
as it's kind of that low barrier
gamified entry level experience which
is what we're trying to achieve again
with
with Stellar quests so with that
we will open it up for for questions
does anybody have
questions about Stellar quest
i'll just wait we've got our
our onca team looking through if there's
any questions if there aren't
you know if i explain everything so well
you know if I explain everything so well
of course there are no questions
we'll wait a few minutes and see if
anybody has anything to ask
so one question you all should be asking
is why do we have to wait
why can't we just claim prizes as soon
as
we finish a challenge why do you have
to put it into a queue
that's an excellent question glad you
asked it it has to do with
the fact that I'm real i really tried to
the fact that I'm real I really tried to
use cloudflare
exclusively for the back end so we're
actually using their key value
storage database if you will but it has
a potential
latency of one minute so you can imagine
if people are completing challenges
in one
part of the world and people are
completing challenges in another part of
the world if that's not in sync
i could complete a challenge after you
I could complete a challenge after you
but
claim the prize before you
and so that's not that's no good so we
have to wait until that potential
latency has passed
to allow everybody to claim the prize
that they actually won
by looking at time stamps once
cloudflare actually announced last week
a more real-time synced
they called durable objects i think it's
they called durable objects I think it's
in beta right now so once it
once it reaches a stable release that'll
allow us to do
claims in real time so we won't have
that kind of
intermittent waiting period between
completing a challenge and claiming the
price for it you'll know immediately as
soon as you finish it
what place you got and whether or not
you have xlm prize associated with it so
excellent question next
another another good one interesting one
not really a question but something
that'll be quite fascinating is once
protocol 13
I'm sorry protocol wait 14 goes live
i think it's 13. i think the last one
I think it's 13. I think the last one
was 12.
I'm a seller person i can actually
I'm a seller person I can actually
remember goes live with claimable
balances and sponsor reserves the whole
process of claiming the prizes will be
much easier
one of the issues right now with
claiming prizes is it's a badge so it's
a custom
asset that's stored on the blockchain
which means i have to open up a truss
which means I have to open up a truss
line
for it and so the there's a very real
time
opening up a truss line and issuing
an asset that happens
where i have to kind of just sit
where I have to kind of just sit
there and wait until
you're immediately asking like hey I'm
ready to receive this prize
once claimable balances exist i can just
once claimable balances exist I can just
say oh this person won this prize I'm
going to set up
an entry in in Stellar that says
here's the prize for this public key and
it's out here
which will allow you to claim it at any
point in time from any
any place you have access to that
public key so rather than having to sort
of have me and you both
there at the same time to both ask for
create the transaction for and then
receive the prize those things can
happen asynchronously
which will make the prize claiming
process much easier as well as
you know if you claim the prize or you
you're eligible for the prize but
for some reason you decide not to claim
it i can
it I can
leave myself as a claimant on that
claimable balance and say after
one day or after a week if you don't
claim it I'm going to revoke it and put
that prize back into the pool for
somebody else to grab
so very excited about claimable balances
and then obviously sponsor reserves
will be really nice because right now
I'm actually creating accounts for
people as they come in
and are attempting to claim their prizes
if their account
doesn't exist on the ledger yet i put
doesn't exist on the ledger yet I put
down
the the minimum balance
for the account for it to exist as well
as covering any
any fees for
the assets that they're trusting so each
of the badges
has a 0.5 lumen reserve that's required
for
for you to hold that asset so i give
for you to hold that asset so I give
you all those lumens right now into your
account it'll be really nice once we
have sponsor reserves where i can just
have sponsor reserves where I can just
sponsor those
for you rather than actually giving them
to you
so both of those new features coming out
to the next protocol release
will be amazing and will greatly improve
that along with the durable objects from
cloudflare will make
Stellar quests just a little bit faster
and honestly easier to to manage from my
end on the on the Stellar side so
very excited about those it's been
interesting actually building a
production level
application on top of Stellar so it's
like a meta application where you're
both teaching
people about Stellar but also using it
to teach them
through the badges and the prizes and
actually trying to get all these things
to work well where it's
a very high friction to try and game it
but it also is really low friction if
you're just trying to use it
it's a lot of fun it's quite challenging
to build an application like this
where it actually works but it's been a
ton of fun super excited to see what the
future
of it holds again as you have feedback
be sure and leave it go through these
challenges the first one
on the public network is launching
this this next monday so
all right if there are no questions
thank you all for for
watching this has been a lot of fun
looking forward to to actually launching
this
live make sure again mark calendars get
out there
and good luck
good luck bye
you